# Microsoft SQL Server 2022 Installation

<em>Note: this is for local database installation</em>

## Installation Steps

1. **Download SQL Server 2022**  
   Go to the [Microsoft SQL Server 2022 download page](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/sql-server-downloads) and download the SQL Server Developer Edition.

2. **Run the Installer**
   - Open the downloaded installer. On the left side select **Installation** and then **New SQL Server standalone installation**.
   - Accept the License Terms and click **Next**.

3. **Installation Type**
   - Choose **Performa a new installation of SQL Server 2022**.
   - Check the box for **Database Engine Services**.
   - Also select the option **SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)** if it appears.

4. **Azure Extension for SQL Server**
   - Uncheck the box for **Axure Extension for SQL Server** then select next at the bottom.

5. **Feature Selection**
   - Check the box for **Database Engine Services**.

6. **Instance Configuration**
   - Choose **Named instance** and enter `SQL2022` in the instance name field.
   - Confirm that the **Instance ID** is also set to `SQL2022`.

7. **Server Configuration**
   - Make sure **SQL Server Database Engine** Startup Type is set to "Automatic".

6. **Database Engine Configuration**
   - Add the current user as a SQL Server administrator by clicking the button at the bottom left "Add Current User" then wait until it shows up in the big textbox then continue.

7. **Finish Installation**
   - Follow through the remaining prompts and complete the installation.

8. **Verify Installation**
   - Open SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) and connect to the server.
   - For the **Server name**, use `<machine name>/SQL2022`.
   - Ensure that you can connect and access SQL Server 2022 with the correct server name.